content/posts/HowTo/how-to-use-sonarcloud/index.md, before:

+++
title = "How-To: Use Sonarcloud "
description = ""
date = 2023-05-29
featured = false
draft = false
comment = true
toc = true
reward = true
pinned = false
categories = [
"How-To", "quality", "Sonarqube"
]
tags = [
  "How-To"
]
series = [
"How-To"
]
images = []
+++

<!--more-->
## Foreword
Sonarcloud same Sonarcube ; free for public project

## Create an Organization

In SonarCloud an account is called "authorization". To create one follow the steps below: 

* go to the Sonarcloud (page)[https://sonarcloud.io/explore/projects]  and click on "Start free" button
![sonarcloud-project-page.png](sonarcloud-project-page.png)

* Create account on Sonarcloud  fom login 

<img src="sonarcloud-connecting-page.png" alt="login_page" width="600px"/>


* authorize Sonarcloud to connect to your source code manager

<img src="sonarcloud-permission.png" alt="sonarcloud-permission" width="600px"/>

Once the authorization given , you will be redirect to page project of your organization and if you have a public projects these display here



## Sonar's concept
it defines concepts like :
* projects
* quality profil
* quality gate

### project

The quality profile is the association of rules with a severity for a given language.


### Rules

### quality profil

The quality profile, is a for a language, some rules, each associated to a severity. 
To access to different existing profiles, go to your authorization and in 'Quality Profile' tab.
![sonarcloud-quality-profiles.png](sonarcloud-quality-profiles.png)

To create a new profil, the simplier way, is copying an existing profil.


### quality gate
A quality gate is a definition of the minimal quality attended by the new code and/or by the existing code.
The quality gate is said to fail when one of parameters is not respected.

All quality gates are listed in 'Quality Gates" tab. 
A new Quality Gate can be created copying and updating an existing quality gate, or create from crash via the 'Create' button 

![sonarcloud-quality-gates.png](sonarcloud-quality-gates.png)

In your CICD if your job, running sonarqube, can't fail then the pipeline will failed if the quality gate is not respected.


## Run first analyze

![sonarcloud-analyze-project.png](sonarcloud-analyze-project.png)


If you have any remarks on the content or the form, you can leave a comment…it is by exchanging that we progress.

Commit message:

udpate how to use sonarcloud post

content/posts/HowTo/how-to-use-sonarcloud/index.md, after:

+++
title = "How-To: Use Sonarcloud "
description = ""
date = 2023-05-29
featured = false
draft = false
comment = true
toc = true
reward = true
pinned = false
categories = [
"How-To", "quality", "Sonarqube"
]
tags = [
  "How-To"
]
series = [
"How-To"
]
images = []
+++

<!--more-->
## Foreword

SonarCloud is a cloud-based code analysis service designed to detect coding issues  (cf. [SonarCloud presentation](https://docs.sonarcloud.io/))
SonarCloud is free for public projects.

## Create an Organization

In SonarCloud an account is called "authorization". To create one follow the steps below: 

* go to the Sonarcloud (page)[https://sonarcloud.io/explore/projects]  and click on "Start free" button
![sonarcloud-project-page.png](sonarcloud-project-page.png)

* Create account on Sonarcloud  fom login 

<img src="sonarcloud-connecting-page.png" alt="login_page" width="600px"/>


* authorize Sonarcloud to connect to your source code manager

<img src="sonarcloud-permission.png" alt="sonarcloud-permission" width="600px"/>

Once the authorization given , you will be redirected to page project of your organization and if you have a public projects these display here



## Sonar's concept

It defines concepts like :
* projects
* quality profil
* quality gate

### project

The quality profile is the association of rules with a severity for a given language.


### Rules

### quality profil

The quality profile, is a for a language, some rules, each associated to a severity. 
To access to different existing profiles, go to your authorization and in 'Quality Profile' tab.
![sonarcloud-quality-profiles.png](sonarcloud-quality-profiles.png)

To create a new profil, the simpler way, is copying an existing profil.


### quality gate
A quality gate is a definition of the minimal quality attended by the new code and/or by the existing code.
The quality gate is said to fail when one of parameters is not respected.

All quality gates are listed in 'Quality Gates' tab. 
A new Quality Gate can be created copying and updating an existing quality gate, or create from crash via the 'Create' button 

![sonarcloud-quality-gates.png](sonarcloud-quality-gates.png)

In your CICD if your job, running sonarqube, can't fail then the pipeline will be failed if the quality gate is not respected.


## Run first analyze

Once the project has been created, SonarCloud offers to launch the first analysis via different ways.

![sonarcloud-analyze-project.png](sonarcloud-analyze-project.png)


For the GitHub public project, we can use GitHub actions. If you want to use an external tool like Gradle you can select _With other CI tools_'

You can find the different ways to analyze your project from the _Administration/Analysis method_ menu






## Summary
In this post we learnt:
* the SonarCloud concepts.
* how to create an organization.
* execute the first analyze.


If you have any remarks on the content or the form, you can leave a comment…it is by exchanging that we progress.
